SPEAKER_00: In 1940, the Tacoma Narrows Bridge looked like the future.
SPEAKER_00: It was long, slender, cheaper than the original conservative design, and beautiful enough to make its movement famous.
SPEAKER_00: People called it Galloping Gertie.
SPEAKER_00: the wind on collapse day was not extraordinary the bridge had already survived stronger autumn winds the hidden problem was what the bridge did to the air after it started moving its shallow solid plate girder deck was too flexible in torsion
SPEAKER_00: Once the roadway began to twist, the motion changed the airflow, and the changed airflow fed the next twist.
SPEAKER_00: Engineers were studying the motion, but the design culture had not yet made dynamic aerodynamic testing routine for bridges like this.
SPEAKER_00: The bridge did not just meet wind.
SPEAKER_00: It entered a behavior its own design made possible.
SPEAKER_00: Small causes.
SPEAKER_00: Massive consequences.